Content card banner (#5666)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/creating_custom_content_cards.md

---
nav_title: Creating Custom Content Cards
article_title: Creating Custom Content Cards
page_order: 5
description: "This article covers components of creating a custom Content Card UI"
channel:
  - content cards
---

# Creating custom Content Cards

> This article discusses the basic approach you'll use when implementing custom Content Cards, as well as three common use cases: banner images, a message inbox, and a carousel of images.

> Braze provides [four Content Card templates: banner, captioned image, classic, and classic image][1]. These templates can be used as a starting place for your implementations, tweaking their look and feel. You can also display Content Cards in a completely custom manner by using your own presentation UI populated with data from the Braze models; parse the Content Card objects and extract payload data such as `title`, `cardDescription`, and `imageUrl`. Then, you can use the resulting model data to populate your custom UI&mdash;the "run" phase of the [crawl, walk, run approach][2].

Reviewer: This link is pretty long, and could cause problems with localization if there is a change in the sentence structure. I'd suggest shortening it to just "Content Card templates", which still provides enough detail about where the link goes.

```suggestion
Braze provides four [Content Card templates][1]: banner, captioned image, classic, and classic image. These templates can be used as a starting place for your implementations, tweaking their look and feel. You can also display Content Cards in a completely custom manner by using your own presentation UI populated with data from the Braze models; parse the Content Card objects and extract payload data such as `title`, `cardDescription`, and `imageUrl`. Then, you can use the resulting model data to populate your custom UI&mdash;the "run" phase of the [crawl, walk, run approach][2].
```

> Braze provides four [Content Card templates][1]: banner, captioned image, classic, and classic image. These templates can be used as a starting place for your implementations, tweaking their look and feel. You can also display Content Cards in a completely custom manner by using your own presentation UI populated with data from the Braze models; parse the Content Card objects and extract payload data such as `title`, `cardDescription`, and `imageUrl`. Then, you can use the resulting model data to populate your custom UI&mdash;the "run" phase of the [crawl, walk, run approach][2].

Reviewer 2: More general feedback: I think we should avoid use of the word "templates" to describe these. They are officially called 'types' in the UX and docs I believe and Templates is already used in other parts of the dashboard to describe a creative template which is a starting point for a message.

Author: Got it!

> Braze provides four [Content Card templates][1]: banner, captioned image, classic, and classic image. These templates can be used as a starting place for your implementations, tweaking their look and feel. You can also display Content Cards in a completely custom manner by using your own presentation UI populated with data from the Braze models; parse the Content Card objects and extract payload data such as `title`, `cardDescription`, and `imageUrl`. Then, you can use the resulting model data to populate your custom UI&mdash;the "run" phase of the [crawl, walk, run approach][2].

Author: For clarity, these are the names of the templates (minus `control`) in the code. When imageOnly is avaialble, we'll update the term `banner` here.

I'll put these in code styling to clarify this point.

{% alert note %}
Each default Content Card template is a subclass which inherits different properties from the generic Content Card model class. Understanding these inherited properties will be useful during customization. Refer to the `ContentCard` class documentation ([Android](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-android-sdk/kdoc/braze-android-sdk/com.braze.models.cards/-card/index.html), [iOS](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/documentation/brazekit/braze/contentcard), [Web](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/classes/braze.card.html)) for full details. 
{% endalert %}

> ## Customization basics

Reviewer 2: Calling it "basics" seems a little misleading to me because a custom UI (the "run" phase) is not a basic customization (vs. customizing styles and extending the views which is more basic)

Depending on your use case, the exact implementation of your custom Content Card will vary a bit, but you will want to follow this basic formula:

1. Build your own UI
2. Listen to data updates
3. Manually log analytics

### Step 1: Create a custom UI 

{% tabs %}
{% tab Android %}

First, create your own custom fragment. The default [`ContentCardFragment`](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-android-sdk/kdoc/braze-android-sdk/com.braze.ui.contentcards/-content-cards-fragment/index.html) is only designed to handle our default Content Card types, but is a good starting point.

{% endtab %}
{% tab iOS %}

First, create your own custom view controller component. The default [`BrazeContentCardUI.ViewController`](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/documentation/brazeui/brazecontentcardui/viewcontroller) is only designed to handle our default Content Card types, but is a good starting point.

{% endtab %}
{% tab Web %}

> First, create your custom view. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, create your custom HTML component that will be used to render the cards. 
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, create a custom component used to render a card. For example:

\```typescript
export const CustomCard = ({title, description, url, linktext}) => {
    return (<div>
        <div>{title}</div>
        <div>{description}</div>
        <a href={url}>{linkText}</a>
    </div>)
}
\```

```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 2: Subscribe to card updates

> Then, [register a callback function to subscribe for data updates when cards are refreshed][6]. 

Reviewer: Same comment here as above, could also do "register a callback function" if that is more accurate

```suggestion
Then, register a callback function to [subscribe for data updates][6] when cards are refreshed. 
```

### Step 3: Implement analytics

> When creating a custom view, Content Card impressions, clicks, and dismissals are not automatically logged. You must [implement each respective method][3] to ensure all metrics get properly logged back to Braze's dashboard analytics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Content Card impressions, clicks, and dismissals are not automatically logged in your custom view. You must [implement each respective method][3] to ensure all metrics get properly logged back to Braze's dashboard analytics.
```

## Content Card placements

This section provides an overview of the three most common ways to place Content Cards within your app or site. For each of these placements, you will assign [key-value pairs][7] (the `extras` property in the data model) to your Content Cards, and based on the values, dynamically adjust the card's behavior, appearance, or functionality during runtime. 

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/cc_placements.png %}){: style="border:0px;"}

### Message inbox

> Content Cards can be used to simulate a message center. In this format, each message is its own card that contains [key-value pairs][5] that power on-click UX. These key-value pairs are the key identifiers that the application looks at when deciding where to go when the user clicks on an inbox message. The values of the key-value pairs are arbitrary but should be distinguishable between class types. 

Reviewer: "on-click UX" isn't a phrase I've seen used in docs before, would "on-click events" be more accurate?

```suggestion
Content Cards can be used to simulate a message center. In this format, each message is its own card that contains [key-value pairs][5] that power on-click events. These key-value pairs are the key identifiers that the application looks at when deciding where to go when the user clicks on an inbox message. The values of the key-value pairs are arbitrary but should be distinguishable between class types. 
```

Here is an example dashboard configuration you might use to create two message cards: one message directs you to an arbitrary custom view and one message opens a web view that displays custom HTML. 

{% tabs local %}
{% tab Arbitrary custom view message (full page) %}

Example key-value pairs for this use case could be:

- `class_type` set as `message_full_page`
- `message_header` set as `Full Page`

![]({% image_buster /assets/img/cc_implementation/full_page.png %}){: style="max-width:60%;"}

{% endtab %}
{% tab Webview message (HTML) %}

Example key-value pairs for this use case could be:

- `class_type` set as `message_webview`

> - `message_header` set as `HTML`

Reviewer 3: @ttsaiveerappan do we want to offer HTML support? there's a 50kb limit so i remember we asked clients to not do this?

To create a Content Card carousel, implement logic that observes for [changes in your Content Cards]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#refreshing-the-feed) and handles Content Card arrival. By default, Content Cards are sorted by created date (newest first), and a user sees all cards they are eligible for. Implement client-side logic to display a specific number of cards in the carousel at any one time.

With that said, you could order and apply additional display logic in a variety of ways. For example, you could select the first five Content Card objects from the array or introduce key-value pairs to build conditional logic around.

If you're implementing a carousel as a secondary Content Cards feed, refer to [Customizing the default Content Card feed]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#multiple-feeds) to ensure you sort cards into the correct feed based on key-value pairs.

### Banner

Content Cards don't have to look like "cards." For example, Content Cards can appear as a dynamic banner that persistently displays on your home page or at the top of other designated pages. 

> To achieve this, your marketers will create a campaign or Canvas step with an **Banner** type of Content Card. Then, set key-value pairs that are appropriate for using [Content Cards as supplemental content.][4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, your marketers will create a campaign or Canvas step with a **Banner** type of Content Card. Then, set key-value pairs that are appropriate for using [Content Cards as supplemental content][4].
```

> To achieve this, your marketers will create a campaign or Canvas step with a **Banner** type of Content Card. Then, set key-value pairs that are appropriate for using [Content Cards as supplemental content][4].

Reviewer 2: Did Dave F ever share what the best practices for banner KVPs we usu. recommend to customers are?  If so, what do you think about including here?

Author: No, no best practices. I got some example KVPs, but those are arbitrary. If you have best practices, I'd love them!

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Carousel

![Sample news app showing carousel of Content Cards in an article.]({% image_buster/assets/img_archive/cc_politer_carousel.png %}){: style="max-width:35%;float:right;margin-left:15px;border:none;"}

Content Cards can be set in a carousel feed where a user can swipe horizontally to view additional featured cards. 

To create a Content Card carousel, implement logic that observes for [changes in your Content Cards]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#refreshing-the-feed), and handles Content Card arrival. By default, Content Cards are sorted by created date (newest first), and a user sees all cards they are eligible for. You will need to implement client-side logic to display a specific number of cards in the carousel at any one time.

With that said, you could order and apply additional display logic in a variety of ways. For example, you could select the first five Content Card objects from the array or introduce key-value pairs (the `extras` property in the data model) to build conditional logic around.

> If you're implementing a carousel as a secondary Content Cards feed, refer to [Customizing the default Content Card feed]({{site.baseurl}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#multiple-feeds) to ensure you sort cards into the correct feed based on key-value pairs.

Reviewer 4: Here!

> If you're implementing a carousel as a secondary Content Cards feed, refer to [Customizing the default Content Card feed]({{site.baseurl}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#multiple-feeds) to ensure you sort cards into the correct feed based on key-value pairs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you're implementing a carousel as a secondary Content Cards feed, refer to [Customizing the default Content Card feed]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/customization_guides/content_cards/customizing_feed/#multiple-feeds) to ensure you sort cards into the correct feed based on key-value pairs.
```

Author: Thank you!
